(CNN) -- Did we miss something? If you know of additional ways to help those affected by the severe weather please tweet us @CNNImpact, and/or please comment below.Tornadoes have caused destruction in states across the country - and the severe weather is expected to continue this week. Storms ripped across the central and southeastern US causing widespread destruction and multiple deaths. Entire neighborhoods were leveled in the Arkansas towns of Mayflower and Vilonia, with more damage and potential loss of life reported in the towns of Louisville and Tupelo, Mississippi and Athens, Alabama - as well as Quapaw, Oklahoma and Baxter Springs, Kansas.If you are looking for loved ones, please check the American Red Cross Safe and Well website. You can also list your information if you are in the area, so your family and friends will know that you are OK.@redcross volunteer Jeremy Bishop unloading water for 250 first responders in Tornado hit, Vilonia, Ark. pic.twitter.com/52Tf5JzcyJThe Red Cross is active with immediate relief at shelters and in the areas of devastation. You can donate online directly to the Disaster Relief fund or by calling 1-800-RED-CROSS (1-800-733-2767). You can also make a $10 donation by mobile phone when you text REDCROSS to 90999.Consider donating to @ArkRedCross with "redcross" to 90999; or Salvation Army, text "storm" to 80888 #arwx #Arkansas pic.twitter.com/QI5LhgRfhxThe Salvation Army has disaster response teams and mobile feeding units that are prepared to provide immediate care, food and water. The Salvation Army has launched a specific tornado relief fund. You can also donate $10 by texting STORM to 80888, or by phone at 1-800-SAL-ARMY (1-800-725-2769).Matthew 25 Ministries heading out to give #disaster relief to areas hit by #tornado. @Enquirer pic.twitter.com/92HyF4PBTGMatthew 25: Ministries' Disaster Response Team is helping in Mayflower, distributing food, water and personal care items. If you choose to make an online donation, specify "Arkansas Tornado Relief" in the "in honor of" field in the form.The United Way of Central Arkansas are also collecting funds and supplies for those affected. If you want to make an online donation, they ask that you specify on the donation form that you want it directed to their Arkansas Tornado Relief Fund.Worldvision is responding by bringing supplies to affected regions, including food, water, personal hygiene kits and blankets. You can find details of their relief efforts here.Americares response staff have been deployed to affected areas, organizing shipments of emergency aid and medicine for those impacted or displaced by the storms. They are accepting donations to help with their relief effort .Thus far, effective long range weather forecasts have been credited with saving many lives in this particularly violent storm outbreak, but please be aware of weather updates and stay safe!