Jakarta presents vast opportunities for workers but tight competition has pushed people to not only work hard but to also get creative. A 56-year-old Blue Bird taxi driver, Eddy Masril, offers his customers complimentary snacks and drinks in his cab. “Please enjoy. They are free,” he told a customer riding from the Sultan Hotel in Central Jakarta. Eddy, who has been a taxi driver for more than 16 years, says he wants to please his customers. “When customers are satisfied, I believe they will return,” he told The Jakarta Post. Eddy, who has been offering the “extra” service since 2006, said he also loved chatting with passengers to keep them entertained. “I have many stories and I love making jokes,” he said. “I often ask them to rate their experience,” he said while showing off journals containing reviews from customers, many of which were written in foreign languages such as English, French, Chinese, even Arabic. He said that he regularly received big tips as well as direct orders from regular customers. “I once received a US$100 tip. I was thrilled,” he said, adding that he usually spent around Rp 7,000 (60 US cents) on snacks to offer his customers. Eddy said that he earned a good living as a taxi driver. He owns four modest homes that he leases and has sent his four children to college. One of Eddy’s customers, businessman Alexander Lie Agung, said he welcomed Eddy’s services. “He employs smart marketing tactics. If customers are happy then they will request his services again,” Alexander, who sells high-end motorcycles, said. Just like Eddy, a number of ojek drivers who park in front of the Indonesia Christian University (UKI) in East Jakarta try to ensure the safety and comfort of their passengers. One of the drivers, Ade, was proud to show off the quality helmet he offered customers to use. Ade said he bought the helmet for around Rp 200,000 three years ago. “I wash my helmets every Sunday. I dry them on my rooftop. You can smell the fragrance,” he said while extending one of his helmets. Ade said he also gave out his phone number to passengers so they could easily contact him.