A hospital in Central Jakarta is the first regional hospital to be upgraded to an “A” ranking, and will see an expansion of its facilities and medical workers to improve patient safety, an official says. There are also plans to improve the hospital’s services with modern health technology and equipment. Jakarta Health Agency head Dien Emmawati said an assessment team from the Health Ministry was finalizing its assessment of Tarakan Hospital, the status of which was upgraded from “C” to “B” grade only two months ago. With the A ranking, Tarakan will be categorized as a hospital with at least four specialist medical services. “A Health Ministry team is visiting the hospital as part of its evaluation. We will have to wait for the results,” Dien said at Tarakan Hospital over the weekend, adding that the hospital would be the first regional hospital to receive such a grade. The agency head said that as per the new status, Tarakan should no longer refer patients to other hospitals. “It will become a reference hospital so it can no longer send patients to other hospitals and it will have improved patient services,” she said, adding that the hospital’s infrastructure and facilities were deemed adequate for patients’ needs. “We’re also considering [expanding] parking spaces,” Dien added. The assistant to the city secretary for people’s welfare, Bambang Sugiyono, pointed out that Jakarta residents would benefit the most from the upgrade. “All Jakarta residents in general and of course [healthcare patients] will benefit the most. From now on, patients should not be sent to RSCM and then go back and forth just to get the right medical service,” Bambang said, referring to Cipto Mangunkusumo General Hospital in Central Jakarta, which is run by the central government. Bambang hinted that the city administration was considering expanding the hospital’s infrastructure. “The hospital building should be expanded and there should be other developments,” he said, declining to reveal the details. Tarakan Hospital president director Kusmedi Priharto acknowledged the hospital had proposed an expansion plan to Governor Joko “Jokowi” Widodo. “We proposed to acquire an 11,000-square-meter plot of land near the hospital so we can expand the hospital’s infrastructure,” Kusmedi said. According to Kusmedi, Tarakan Hospital is ready for the status upgrade as it has various specialist and subspecialist units handled by qualified specialists. “We have a critical care center with 79 beds, including an NICU [neonatal intensive care unit], PICU [pediatric intensive care unit], ICU [intensive care unit], ICCU [intensive coronary care unit] and PACU [post-anesthesia care unit],” he said. Kusmedi added that the hospital planned to expand its medical facilities this year. “We aim to add 10 operating rooms and 25 beds for dialysis, as well as adding facilities for patients with HIV, lung disease and surgery patients,” he said. Tarakan Hospital has a total of 486 beds, 76 percent of which are in third-class wards; 105 doctors, including general physicians and specialists; and a total of 941 employees. It has served an average of 800 to 900 patients daily since the introduction of the Jakarta Health Card (KJS) program in November 2012. The KJS program has been merged with national health insurance (JKN) plan, which is managed by the Social Security Management Agency (BPJS) for the health sector. According to a hospital nurse, the emergency unit handles an average of 130 patients at night. Tarakan Hospital has also connected its online registration system to that of 11 community health centers (puskesmas) across the capital, according to Kusmedi. “Puskesmas patients referred to Tarakan Hospital should just come to the hospital and get a queue number here,” he said.