Outgoing South Korean Ambassador to Indonesia Kim Young-sun has said that he was fortunate to have served in his capacity during such a positive period with regards to relations between the two countries. Kim smiled as he looked back on his three-year tenure in Jakarta. “I have been a Korean diplomat for more than 30 years, but very frankly, as the ambassador to Indonesia, I feel most honored, privileged and very lucky to have served at the right time during our relations,” he told The Jakarta Post at the Embassy of the Republic of Korea on Friday. Kim, who believed that cultural interaction was the most important factor in developing and maintaining strong relations, will finish his post in April, and it was during his tenure that the Korean Cultural Center and the Korean Tourism Organization office in Jakarta were established (in 2012). “State-to-state relations come from people-to-people relations. It is easier to cooperate with each other if our people like each other,” he said. Kim fondly recounted his experiences traveling throughout Indonesia in his spare time, and learning more about tropical flora through landscaping the embassy’s garden located behind the main building. Kim and his family have traveled across approximately 23 provinces in Indonesia. He animatedly cited an experience that involved traveling to Mount Bromo in East Java by car. He said that he found the natural beauty of the archipelago enticing. He professed that both he and his wife had been to Bali more than 30 times during his service here. “You have very beautiful landscapes,” said Kim, who was appointed as South Korean ambassador to Indonesia by former president Lee Myung-bak in 2011. Kim noted that through his travels across the archipelago he came to realize how deep the Korean cultural phenomena, such as Korean pop (K-pop) music, had penetrated the Indonesian public. In October 2013, Indonesia and South Korea commemorated their 40-year-anniversary of diplomatic ties with President Park Geun-hye’s visit to Jakarta. He added that the large Korean community in Indonesia, with a population of over 50,000 in total, have contributed to Indonesian society through corporate social responsibility and charity programs. Many of these young Koreans study abroad before coming to settle in Indonesia again, he said. Kim, who served as deputy foreign minister and Foreign Ministry chief spokesperson before coming to Jakarta, said that he believes Indonesia-South Korean relations can only grow stronger from here on by encouraging more multi-sectoral cooperation. “We regard Indonesia as a very important country, our economic structures complement each other geopolitically, we are quite similar in many ways and we share the same values,” he said. South Korean investment in Indonesia has been on the rise in recent years. In 2013, realized investment from the country stood at US$2.2 billion after 12.8 percent year-on-year growth, making it the fourth-biggest investor in Indonesia after Japan, Singapore and the US. The Investment Coordinating Board (BKPM) is expecting to see a total of $2.3 billion in South Korean investment realized this year. Furthermore, Indonesia and South Korea are also negotiating the Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement (CEPA). Although they have held seven rounds of negotiations without reaching a final agreement, Kim said that the two countries were experiencing good economic relations regardless, adding that the negotiations have been proceeding slowly to ensure that both countries benefit equally from the strengthened economic relations. Indonesia and South Korea have also forged a cooperation framework for the defense industry. Recently, Indonesia procured 16 T-50i jet trainers. In addition, the two countries will be working together in a transfer of knowledge project for the construction of three Chang-bogo class submarines by state-owned shipbuilder PT PAL in Surabaya, as well as undertaking the joint-development of the IFX/KFX next generation jet fighters. The South Korean navy is also planning on participating in the Multilateral Naval Exercise Komodo 2014, hosted by Indonesia, from March 28 to April 5. The ambassador said that he would miss the warm hospitable culture of the Indonesian people. He said that when he finally left Indonesia he would take his dear memories of interactions with Indonesians with him. “Indonesia is a really blessed country, don’t forget that. I envy it a lot; you have a diversity of culture, landscape and ethnic groups. It is definitely your asset,” he said. (fss)