Korean Park Sang-hyun and Filipino Juvic Pagunsan shot matching eight-under-par 64s on Friday to share the lead midway through the second round of the Enjoy Jakarta Indonesia PGA Championship. After opening with 67s, the pair is now 13-under around Damai Indah Golf’s 6,545-meter Bumi Serpong Damai course in pursuit of the title at the US$1 million tournament co-sanctioned by OneAsia and Japan Tour. Japan’s Michio Matsumura carded 67 to stay a shot behind co-leaders, while Aussie Rhein Gibson is alone in fourth at 10 under after posting a 65, according to a press release. Park, who celebrated his son’s first birthday on Friday, was delighted with his efforts despite feeling that his driving was not up to scratch. “My boy is 1 years old today so this is for him,” said the 30-year-old, whose only blemish was a bogey on the fifth. “My target today was to make a birdie on every par five and I managed to do that. My putting was also very good, so I am happy.” Pagunsan, a winner here in 2007 at an Asian Tour event, also credited a hot putter for his blistering round. “The greens are very different from when I won here — they go up and down a lot more — but I managed to put it close and that was important today,” he said. The runner-up at this event last year, Pagunsan said he had worked out this year in a bid to go one better. “I am in much better shape this year,” the 35-year-old said. “I hope I can get the results to show for the work.” Matsumura has won three times on the Japan Tour — his latest being The Crowns tournament in May last year — and said he planned to be even more aggressive on the weekend. “My driving was only ok, so I want to do better in the next two rounds,” he said. The round of the day belonged to Aussie rookie Jack Wilson, who fired nine birdies in his 63, to offset an opening-round 73. With the cut hovering at around minus three, headline act YE Yang, Asia’s only major winner, just squeezed in after a second-round 67 left him at four under. Defending champion Choi Ho-sung, however, looked set for an early flight home after his Friday 67 saw him finish two under for the tournament, while nothing went local hero Rory Hie’s way as he closed at plus four after rounds of 75 and 73.