With the rise of Asia’s world-class female tennis players and growing fan base in the region, the Women’s Tennis Association (WTA) believes the sport’s popularity is on the up in the Asia Pacific and wants to bring tennis to new heights there. “There’s no doubt that tennis in Asia is entering a golden era. We see more women in the region playing tennis both for leisure and at a competitive level,” newly installed WTA tournament director Melissa Pine told The Jakarta Post on Thursday. “We have also seen one of Indonesia’s young players, Tami Grende, make the headlines for her recent wins in the 23rd Sarawak Chief Minister’s Cup in Malaysia and the 25th Mitsubishi-Lancer International Junior Tennis [competition] in the Philippines,” she added. According to the WTA, the fan base for women’s tennis in the Asia Pacific has multiplied from 4 million in 2010 to 14 million in 2013. “We believe much of this is due to the interest in the rise of prominent world-class Asian players such as WTA World No. 2 singles player Li Na and World No. 1 doubles player Peng Shuai [both from China] making their mark in the rankings,” said Pine. Seeing the growing popularity of the sport in the region, in line with the WTA’s strategic priority of growing the women’s tennis brand and tournament footprint in Asia, the association opened its first office in Beijing which covers the North Asia regions in 2008, followed by the opening of its Asia-Pacific headquarters in Singapore last December. “The opening of the WTA’s Singapore office, so close to key markets, including Indonesia, is a defining moment in our history to build our fan base, our brand and businesses. It also reinforces our commitment to bringing the sport to new heights in Asia,” said Pine. The WTA recently announced that its season-ending championships will be moved from Istanbul to Singapore after an extensive global search and bidding process. The US$6.5 million championships will take place from Oct. 17 through Oct. 26 at the Singapore Sports Hub. It will be the first time in the 44-year history of the WTA Championships that a city in the Asia Pacific will host the year-end event. “We believe the staging of the BNP Paribas WTA Championships in Singapore for the next five years will inspire many Indonesians to pick up a racket and play tennis.” “The close proximity of the two countries provides excellent accessibility and hopefully results in heightened interest in the sport,” Pine explained. With the addition of Singapore as the year-end championships’ host city, 17 events will be staged in the Asia-Pacific market in 2014. Three of these events will be held in Southeast Asian countries — the PTT Pattaya Open in Pattaya City, Thailand, from Jan. 27 to Feb. 2; the BMW Malaysian Open in Kuala Lumpur from April 14 to April 20; followed by the BNP Paribas WTA Championships season finale in Singapore in October. Commenting on the shortage of young Indonesians taking sports seriously as a profession, Pine said Indonesia had a vast talent pool of athletes, evident from the many established world title holders from various sports such as badminton. “We’re certain that with the current boom of Asian stars climbing up the ranks such as Li Na [China], Kimiko Date-Krumm [Japan], Sania Mirza [India] and Tamarine Tanasugarn [Thailand] making their mark on the WTA tour, their success is sure to inspire more children in Indonesia to pick up a racquet and aspire to shine in professional tennis,” she concluded.