I am writing to you to exercise my right as a law-abiding citizen and to express my resentment and regret at your article on Thursday, March 27, 2014, entitled “Former foreign minister took dirty cash: KPK.” Your report failed to respect the presumptions of innocence in this ongoing and yet-to-be-concluded trial. By saying that I, as former foreign minister, “took dirty cash”— deliberately omitting the word “allegedly” —you have made a prejudgement on a case, the proceedings of which have only just begun and, hence, the court’s judges have not reached their final verdict. The writer, Haeril Halim, has acted as an unauthorized judge. The writer’s claim that I, and for that matter my assistant, could not be reached for comment (by email or telephone) was blatantly unsupported. Had I been contacted, certainly I would have conveyed my denial of the allegation that I “took” Rp 440 million from the state, a statement I already made last year to the KPK [Corruption Eradication Commission]. I would also like to use this opportunity to shed light on some claims. First, on the notion that there were violations of Presidential Decree (Keppres) No. 80/2003. The government policy to hold some 12 international conferences during 2004-2005 were a calculated response to the dire political, security and humanitarian situation following the Bali bombings of Oct. 12, 2002, and the tsunami in Aceh in 2004, which was a global disaster on a massive scale and required a swift national and global response. Also in response to the tsunami in Aceh, the Foreign Ministry was given only seven days by the Cabinet to prepare a Tsunami Summit. It was a great success, as on the second day, some US$4.7 billion were pledged by the international community. As for the rehabilitation and reconstruction of Aceh, we collected assistance of at least $7 billion. With a spirit of internal reform and efficiency in the Foreign Ministry, we returned some Rp 8 billion of the allocated budget for the Tsunami Summit to the government’s coffers. Likewise, the case of the Asian-African Summit (AAS) held in April 2005. The AAS was conditioned on the progress of Aceh’s three-month emergency phase, which ended on March 30, 2005. This time, the Foreign Ministry was given 18 days to prepare the AAS, which was attended by 106 heads of state and government and ministerial delegates. The news about those successful conferences created an impression that they were training for the Foreign Ministry, which was naïve considering the urgency of the government’s response; even in the early days of our diplomacy, with a number of limitations, we successfully held the Asian-African Conference in Bandung in 1955. On those cases, with the brevity of time to prepare these conferences, we could not avoid direct appointment and, therefore, open bidding, stipulated under Keppres No. 80/2003. Second, it is important to put this case in real perspective. In the aftermath of the Bali bombings, tourists simply stopped coming to Bali and the entire nation was seen as an unsafe destination with all its negative implications to the Indonesian economy. In response, Indonesian diplomacy sponsored the holding of the regional Asia-Pacific Conference on Counterterrorism and, to my recollection, the cost of the conference was around Rp 3.8 billion. The assumption that the state lost some $12 billion from 12 international conferences ignored what we gained in nominal terms. The conferences generated some $55 million in contributions from countries such as Australia, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and Denmark for the training of Indonesia’s Densus 88 counterterrorism squad, and the building of the Jakarta Center for Law Enforcement Cooperation, as a center for training and capacity building of around 7,000 of our police officers and other international security forces. Nonetheless, I am fully aware of the importance of maintaining open and transparent management of these conferences. I fully respect and, especially am proud, that in the era of reformasi, we, as a nation, strongly uphold the freedom of the press and information. But as the saying goes, with enormous power comes great responsibility. And I wished that your paper had exercised its functions with credibility. I regret that The Jakarta Post has exercised its freedom in an unfair fashion, causing an unfair trial by the press. N. Hassan Wirajuda Jakarta