March 21, Online Jakarta Deputy Governor Basuki “Ahok” Tjahaja Purnama says the city administration will hire thugs to oversee parking meters, which will be installed in several areas. He added that the new policy was aimed at eliminating thuggery in the city. Ahok said that thugs employed in the new parking system would be paid about Rp 4 million (US$352) per month, which was far higher than the city’s Rp 2.4 million minimum wage. Your comments: Who exactly do you mean by “thugs”, the unemployed, Pak Ogah, tukang parkir [parking attendants]? Have these people been convicted of crimes? The assumption that unemployed and poor youth are “criminals” is a well-entrenched middle-class prejudice in this town. Kalamer “Thugs” is a translation of “preman”, which is talking more about unemployed youth, who are aplenty in Jakarta, instead of career criminals. I think Ahok is talking about giving jobs to unemployed youth in the city parking service as way of reducing petty criminality that tends to be carried out by unemployed youth. Panis Angelcus I think Ahok has become completely desperate to wipe thugs off the street. There is no law for that. So why don’t we use the hands of other thugs — let them compete on the street and the number will soon decline. Fussion B But if the genius that dreamed up this plan thinks for one minute that this will not empower “thugs” to be more thuggish, they will be. P Simon Peers I still don’t think it’s right to reward criminality (or even potential criminality). I was young once and it was actually a lot easier to become a criminal in my day because all you had to do was share with the local cop in charge of your beat! A few years ago I remember in Menteng they poured kerosene on a petty criminal and set him on fire! People simply got really fed up with bag snatchers and pickpockets etc. and since the police wouldn’t do anything about it, they did what they wanted! If the authorities want to do what’s right, they need to catch these guys, put them in rehabilitation (not jail) and get them to work for a living. Paying them Rp 4 million is (to put it mildly) outrageous and downright wrong! In China, ordinary people migrate to industrial areas to work for less (than our minimum wage)! China’s explosive growth is entirely on the back of these people! Pauloh Why thugs? Why not policemen patrolling the area? Does being a thug help to get paid? Batik I do hope that the sole purpose of these “thugs” is to safeguard parking meters and to ensure that they are used appropriately. To this end, please publish information to inform the public about the actual responsibilities and duties of these so-called “thugs”. I would like to see that they don’t go around abusing/walloping people over non-payment of parking charges. Their weapons should be a whistle, pen and notebook. Oh, yes, please provide a uniform for identification purposes. Luwanto Wise words say, “If you cannot beat them, join them”. Is that what you are trying to do, Pak Ahok? Robby Kaware So on Jakarta’s streets, thugs will make about as much as a regular civil servant? That makes sense. Magpie