Your comments on the testimony made by former Democratic Party chairman and graft and money-laundering suspect Anas Urbaningrum that an audit report on President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono’s 2009 campaign finances he submitted to investigators listed bogus donors, whose names were used to cover up illicit funds allegedly funneled from the Bank Century bailout:The connections between one case and another that allegedly involve our politicians are amazing. It is too easy for them to get involved in several graft cases simultaneously. Aki Kurnia Pohan Balikpapan What can we expect from a big lie? Just the same — investigations should be continued to find out who is right and who is wrong. This data is somehow necessary to determine who is fit for the legislative election on April 9. The Corruption Eradication Commission (KPK) is indeed timely in prosecuting those who are no longer worthy of election/reelection on April 14. Let us make an effort to vote for only the right candidates, so we can stop the shameless corruption in the government. Unless we stop corruption this time, we shall never be able to cope with the implementation of the ASEAN Economic Community (AEC); a measure to gauge our capability to catch up with whatever is necessary to right ourselves in the AEC. Moeljono Adikoesoemo Jakarta Come on Anas, spill the beans on everyone now so that the KPK can bust them before the House of Representatives puts them out of business as they are attempting to. Anas was in a position to know exactly what was going on. Keep on talking. We all know the truth but acting on it is the problem. Soon, if the House gets its way, the KPK won’t have any power to act on anything Sheldon Archer In most countries, a “slanderous” remark calls for legal action. If Anas’ statement was slanderous, the Democratic Party must sue him! Not doing so amounts to an admission of guilt! On the other hand, taking legal action to clear their “good” name may open up a can of worms and the result could be worse! This is a predicament! PaulohTopic of the day Banning biblical epic film The Film Censorship Board (LSF) has decided to ban Hollywood’s re-telling of the biblical tale, Noah, as the film is considered controversial. What do you think? Send your thoughts by email, SMS, Twitter or Facebook. Include your name and city.tjpforum SMS +628111872772  readersforum@thejakartapost.com