What has idealistically — and perhaps genuinely — been promoted for the sake of the “common interest” may not always receive a welcoming response, as too often it is understood or viewed to the contrary. This is apparently what has been happening with the government’s decision to use taxpayers’ money to pay for election observers, who represent political parties at polling stations across the country, during the election. Not surprisingly, after it was announced the idea received a barrage of negative responses. A researcher at election watchdog the Association for Elections and Democracy (Perludem), Veri Junaidi, said the cost of paying election observers from political parties was an unnecessary burden and too big a burden for the country to bear. “There will be at least 545,778 polling stations across Indonesia. [If we] multiply that by 12 observers, one from each of the 12 political parties contesting the election, then the total cost will reach Rp 660 billion [US$54.35 million],” he said. Political analyst Ray Rangkuti from the Indonesian Civil Society Circle said observers were unnecessary as the Election Supervisory Committee (Bawaslu) had planned to deploy two additional supervisors at each polling station. Bawaslu will get Rp 800 billion from the Finance Ministry to pay for its additional supervisors, who will be recruited from universities and NGOs throughout the country. A researcher with the Indonesia Corruption Watch (ICW), Abdullah Dahlan, said the idea was groundless as neither Law No. 1/2004 on state assets nor Law No. 17/2003 on state finance stipulated budgetary allocations for political parties, and that the political parties were not recognized as “leading sectors” as both laws had categorized. “After all such, budgetary allocations are not among Bawaslu’s duties and functions,” he said. Meanwhile, independent budget watchdog the Coalition for State Finance Accountability (KUAK) has gone even further, reporting the matter to the Corruption Eradication Commission (KPK) over potential corruption of up to Rp 700 billion. All of those counter statements and the legal maneuvers taken against the government’s decision have their own reasoning — each of them technically valid. On the other hand, the idea itself is not completely flawed. In this case, Bawaslu chairman Muhammad was right when he defended that the presence of both the Bawaslu supervisors and the political party observers were desperately needed, despite the lack of regulation, as not all of the 12 national political parties and the three local Aceh political parties contesting this year’s general elections could afford to cover all their election expenditures. “The presence of political party observers is stipulated in the Election Law. This is a reality that we have to face, which requires a pretty big budget. If every party had to pay for its own observers, it would cost each party Rp 55 billion,” he said recently. “So there’s nothing wrong with it, as the law already requires political party observers to be present at every polling station.” The culprit in this matter is apparently the people’s lack of trust in the country’s governance system. Blatant cases of election manipulation in the forms of vote-rigging and vote-buying practices in past elections have been more than enough to convince and alert Indonesians that whatever the policies or proposals raised by the government in power, particularly in regards to the organization of the general election, should be put under microscopic scrutiny so as to avoid further manipulation of its results. It is, therefore, reasonable to see those observers lambasting the idea, alleging that the planned issuance of the election observer fund was politically motivated, especially by the governing parties, which can access the state budget. So if the government insists on pressing ahead with the idea, it must provide a transparent mechanism for the people to scrutinize its implementation. Otherwise, the idea must be killed in the first place as it will only make room for manipulation in the organization of the general election. Other than that, ensuring enough election observers are at polling stations across the country, is only one of the areas of concern that Bawaslu, as the official monitoring/supervisory institution of the general elections, has to resolve. As Perludem chairman, Didik Supriyanto, noted, there are two “critical stages” in the organization of the election prone to manipulation: During data entry/update at the District Polling Committee (PPK) level and at the General Elections Commission (KPU). The conclusion, according to Didik, was made after observing the organization of the 2009 election. “While manipulation at the PPK could occur due to the heavy workload of data entry operators, or deliberate manipulation by the operators themselves, the greatest manipulation at the KPU level is mostly about vote-buying activities among election participants,” Didik said. It is, therefore, advisable for the government, in particular Bawaslu, to not only focus on providing adequate monitoring mechanism at the polling stations nationwide, but most importantly to tackle the rampant irregularities/manipulations at the PPKs throughout the country and at the KPU itself. All the symptoms of election manipulation have been identified, what we all need now is the proper medication to prevent them from developing into diseases.