The Constitutional Court (MK) is a powerful institution in post-reform Indonesia, so powerful it could change the course of Indonesian history. It is, therefore, a horror that we once let Akil Mochtar lead it. As details of the graft investigation into his alleged misconduct while leading the court have unfolded, we have been disgusted at how corrupt the man could be. It is suspected he charged billions of rupiah to fix rulings on election disputes, a practice that enabled him to live large by amassing wealth of around Rp 200 billion (US$16.4 million). He acquired dozens of luxury cars, possibly bought to launder his money. His former colleague, Mahfud MD, claimed Akil might have stashed illicit cash in the walls of a karaoke room at his official residence. His lawyer has denied Mahfud’s claim, saying it was true that the money was found in the room, but that it was not hidden in the walls. Okay, even though the money may not have been stashed inside the walls like in a movie, why would a top justice keep billions of rupiah in a karaoke room? Akil is not the only top official that has been caught living in an underworld replete with corruption, drugs and secret affairs with dangdut singers. But he is the most senior official to be charged with graft, and what he did could continue to have far-reaching repercussions on the future of this nation. With such great power, he could single-handedly bring this nation to its knees, simply because he could not help but gratify his greed. Other than rigging local elections, it was also revealed that Akil might have deliberately delayed the issuance of a landmark ruling on the judicial review petition against the 2008 Presidential Election Law. The historic and widely praised ruling, issued on Thursday, declares holding the legislative and presidential elections on different dates is unconstitutional, as it offers an opportunity for political parties to engage in horse-trading practices, and undermines the nation’s presidential system as mandated by the Constitution. While the court said it was up to the government and the House of Representatives to retain or scrap a clause in the law regarding the presidential nomination threshold, its stipulation that elections should be held concurrently means such a threshold is irrelevant. This could drastically change the country’s political system; hopefully, for the better. The court, however, controversially announced the ruling would only affect the 2019 elections, as it feared it would disrupt the ongoing preparations for the 2014 elections, which are only three months away. This baffles many, who question that, if timing really matters, why did the court delay its announcement until the 11th hour? And if holding two elections separately is declared unconstitutional, why are we still holding the 2014 elections on separate dates? Justice Harjono said the court had already decided about the petition challenging the Presidential Election Law — filed by communications expert Effendi Gazali — on March 26 last year. However, he said, the justices were still divided on whether the concurrent elections should be held in 2014 or 2019, and whether the threshold should consequently be nullified. Harjono claimed Akil was then so busy handling local election disputes, before being arrested by the nation’s antigraft body, that he eventually abandoned Effendi’s petition. But critics, including Effendi, have taken the claim with a grain of salt. Effendi said he asked the court about the fate of his petition in May but was told by Akil that the court had yet to reach a verdict. Refly Harun, a legal expert who once reported Akil for graft, suspects Akil might have kept the ruling to “sell” it to political parties that had little chance of meeting the presidential threshold. Such an allegation could have been seen as far-fetched, if Akil had not been arrested for allegedly fixing rulings. Presidential hopeful from the Crescent Star Party (PBB), Yusril Ihza Mahendra, accused the court of playing politics, saying Akil might have deliberately delayed the ruling for the sake of the Golkar Party. Akil is a former Golkar lawmaker. The party, one of the largest contenders in the upcoming election, has benefited from the court’s decision to delay the implementation of last week’s ruling. With the threshold intact, there is a possibility that Aburizal Bakrie, the party’s presidential nominee, would only face Megawati Soekarnoputri in the race, given that other parties would likely fail to meet the threshold to field a candidate. If the Great Indonesia Movement (Gerindra) Party does not qualify to field Prabowo Subianto in the presidential race, it is likely that the Indonesian Democratic Party of Struggle (PDI-P) will let Jakarta Governor Joko “Jokowi” Widodo finish his job and nominate Megawati instead. Many surveys have predicted that if Jokowi did not run, Prabowo would win the election. Aburizal or Megawati, according to many surveys, are no match for Prabowo. This may be nothing but mere speculation, but it underlines a serious problem plaguing the Constitutional Court today. It is important to build public trust in the court to avoid speculation that could jeopardize the constitutionality of election results. We cannot afford to let short-term political interests hijack the court and derail us from our hard-earned democracy. Despite his inconsistency in electing former National Mandate Party (PAN) politician Patrialis Akbar as court justice, President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono did the right thing last year when he enacted a law that would effectively bar politicians from becoming court justices. Aside from Patrialis, the current court leader, Hamdan Zoelva, is a former PBB lawmaker. The law also mandated the establishment of a permanent ethics council to ensure that the court does not go unchecked. The council should begin its work by examining the controversies surrounding the court’s ruling on the Presidential Election Law. In a democracy, we must accept the results of elections, whatever they are. But we need to be assured the elections are fair and constitutional.