Lasmaria Boru Manulang, 26, broke down in tears when she finally saw her four-day-old baby girl, Valencia, who was snatched from Hasan Sadikin Hospital in Bandung, West Java, on Tuesday. She held the baby in her arms and kissed her gently. Lasmaria and her husband, Toni Manurung, 26, expressed their gratitude after police found their daughter safe and sound and caught the perpetrator on Friday evening. “I am very happy. It’s been three days since she went missing,” said Toni, while holding Valencia in his arms. “I just want thank the police officers who had worked tirelessly on this case and I also want to thank the media,” added Toni, who works as a city bus driver serving the Dago-Caringin route. On Tuesday, Valencia was kidnapped by a woman, who disguised herself as a doctor and was later identified as DS, 32, while Lasmaria and Toni were in the bathroom. West Java Police spokesperson Sr. Comr. Martinus Sitompul said that police apprehended DS at a two-story rented house on Gang H Ento, which is located roughly 300 meters from the hospital. Martinus said DS’ mother-in-law said she was suspicious when DS said that she had just delivered a baby because there were no signs she was even pregnant. DS told her husband that she delivered the baby on Tuesday night, while Valencia was born on Tuesday morning. “When the police arrived, DS said she would quickly go to a kiosk, but never returned,” Martinus said, adding that the police found Valencia at the house. As it turned out, DS attempted to commit suicide by jumping off the Pasupati (Pasteur-Surapati) overpass, said West Java Police chief Insp. Gen. M. Iriawan. DS was rushed to hospital, while the baby was taken to the Sukajadi city police headquarters. The police also found several pieces of evidence including a used laboratory uniform and an orange bag. “The lab uniform and the bag match the ones seen on the CCTV footage,” Iriawan said. Hasan Sadikin Hospital’s operational and general affairs director Edi Sampurno said that DS was currently being treated at the emergency unit due to the severe injuries she sustained from her 12 meter-fall. She sustained injuries to her upper left arm, left elbow, left wrist and left hip. She reportedly hit a tree branch before hitting the ground. “We are still monitoring her condition. We will need time to evaluate her mental state, however, her physical condition is stable,” Edi said. As for Valencia, Edi said she was healthy, but lost 100 grams in weight. She weighed 3.4 kilograms at birth. Toni said that he had already a chance to see DS at the hospital after asking the police’s permission to do so. “I couldn’t keep calm until I saw her [the kidnapper] with my own eyes,” he said. Martinus said that police were still investigating the motive behind the kidnapping, adding that it was possible that the perpetrator had communicated with others before committing the crime. Separately, Iriawan called on the Hasan Sadikin Hospital’s management to tighten its security to prevent such crimes in the future.