This year is an election year for Indonesia. Foreign Minister Marty Natalegawa views the political process in the coming months as providing a good opportunity for Indonesia to show its vibrant, mature and ever-strengthening democracy to the world. It also gives the opportunity to inform elements of the nation about the country’s foreign policy and its place in the world. Marty recently talked to The Jakarta Post’s Yohanna Ririhena on this issue and the future of Indonesian diplomacy. How much will domestic politics affect foreign policy and how will you manage the risks ahead? As far as foreign policy is concerned, the election and political process in 2014 will provide Indonesia with another positive platform to demonstrate to the rest of the world that this is an Indonesia that is now democratic and part of the democratic community of nations, whose democracy is functioning and becoming stronger. We also need to give assurances to the world that despite leadership changes, our foreign policy always consists of continuity and reform. It will always be a combination of these two elements. The new government will set its priorities, but we are convinced of its commitment and outlook because our basic foreign policy orientation is provided in the Constitution. So, there will always be a clear benchmark and ways of looking at things and the parameters in our foreign policy will remain. The international community can also be assured that the internal political process will not have any negative impact on the outlook and engagement of Indonesian foreign policy. In this political year, foreign policy is still on, not switched off. As we approach the election, domestic political debate must also be informed. We have informed discussions on foreign policy issues with many parties across the political spectrum. We think that a good understanding of foreign policy is needed so that the quality of deliberation and exchanges derive from a comprehensive understanding. So far, there has been a good understanding of foreign policy among all parties. It’s also critical to continue to maintain the Foreign Ministry’s professionalism. We have capable groups of diplomats who are able to continue to work diligently and professionally in pursuit of our foreign policy goals, irrespective of the changes in leadership. Our foreign policy today is in good shape. We will hand over the reins to the next government with Indonesia’s role in the world in a very good condition. We may have certain basic principles of foreign policy but each government has a different approach and style. How does the Foreign Ministry anticipate these changes so they do not detract from Indonesia’s foreign policy outlook? The most important thing is for the ministry to constantly maintain its professionalism. Every new government will have its own priorities, approaches and outlook. The wonderful thing is that we have been able, based on past experiences, to continue, support and carry out the democratic mandate the next government will no doubt enjoy. Our outlook is the national interest and the government’s priorities. What is essential is the human resources — not the property or material assets of the ministry but the quality of its diplomats. This cannot be neglected. We have seen a rift in our relationship with Australia over the phone-tapping revelations. As 2014 will be a political year, there is a risk that the issue could be politicized. How can this be managed? Certainly there are challenges ahead of us, but we should look at the bigger picture. We have developed strategic partnerships with our neighbors such as Australia, Papua New Guinea, Timor Leste, Singapore and Malaysia. We also have set up an annual leaders’ meeting with the countries in the region. Problems sometimes arise among neighbors, but whatever happens we already have a framework of cooperation. We may have different perspectives but the most important thing is we have a modality to resolve the problem. How can Indonesia’s diplomacy have a bigger say? The issue of trust and confidence is very important in diplomacy. Indonesia has been able to deliver concrete results, exercise leadership and make a positive contribution in ASEAN, APEC [Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation], the WTO [World Trade Organization] and in many other multilateral forums. We have been able to maintain the reservoir of trust and goodwill of the international community about Indonesia. This is the most important currency and asset in the conduct of foreign policy. What are the main challenges for Indonesian foreign policy in 2014? One of the most basic, fundamental challenges is how to ensure continued peace and stability in our region. Peace and stability have enabled all the countries in the region to pursue economic development. We have been able to enjoy a peace dividend, but there are a number of risks ahead of us. First, there is the challenge of a trust deficit. We see countries in the region are now more interdependent than ever and a lot of formal forums flourish where countries are communicating. However, at the same time we still see increased tension and evidence of distrust. Second is the challenge of territorial disputes. These are not new disputes as they have been there historically. Somehow in recent years, these territorial disputes re-emerged, risking relations between countries. Third, how do we manage change? Our region is now changing in terms of geopolitics and geo-economics. We should ensure that change comes with peace and stability, and it doesn’t create uncertainty, miscalculation and new divisions in our region. What approach should Indonesia pursue in maintaining peace and stability? First of all, we must avoid complacency and thinking that the peace and stability we have enjoyed over several decades have happened by themselves. We have to be assertive in claiming and waging peace. It means we have to convert each of those problems into opportunities and turn negatives into positives. We can convert a trust deficit into strategic trust by establishing better communications and by better appreciating the positions of others. On the issue of territorial disputes, we need to recognize that these disputes will not go away overnight, but require time if they are to be addressed. Let’s be committed to solving problems through negotiation and peaceful means. On the issue of geopolitical and geo-economic shifts, we have to come up with a new way of looking at things to avoid the sense of one country’s rise being associated with another’s downfall. How can the ministry prepare its human resources to be ready to face these challenges? The quality of a country’s diplomacy is its leadership and contribution. We rely most on the quality of our diplomats. What matters most is the individual capacity of the diplomats concerned. That is why over the past few years, we have really invested heavily in raising the capacity of our diplomats, not only in terms of educational background and professional capacity, but also in terms of their outlook.