Today, Jakarta will join more than 7,000 cities across the world to commemorate Earth Hour, which, as usual, will be marked with a lights-off event from 8:30 p.m. until 9:30 p.m. to remind people around the globe of the energy scarcity facing the human race. Turning off non-essential lights will contribute significantly to energy savings, particularly if it involves millions of people and organizations. Two years ago, the activity saw Jakarta save 214 megawatts of electricity, while in Bangkok the movement reportedly saved nearly 1.7 gigawatts of electricity last year, preventing emissions of more than 1,000 tons of carbon dioxide. Therefore, the impacts of the World Wide Fund (WWF)-initiated event are real, although it is just too insignificant to salvage environmental destruction plaguing the blue planet. One hour of switching two or three lamps will not prevent Jakarta from experiencing an electricity deficit as demand for power far outweighs supply. The movement, therefore, is more about planting the seed of awareness on environmental preservation as a way to save the earth. This year, the Earth Hour movement addresses various issues, such as encouraging people to use public transportation, plant more trees and use less plastic, paper and tissue. Tonight, the event in Jakarta will be centered along the city’s thoroughfares of Jl. MH Thamrin and Jl. Sudirman. Given that the energy saved from Earth Hour is miniscule, the city administration, residents, NGOs and business communities will be reminded that they have to do more to really keep Jakarta from experiencing an energy crisis. Concerning public transportation, the city administration needs to continuously improve services so as to woo people to leave behind their private vehicles – cars and motorcycles: the main culprits of the daily traffic congestion. Traffic gridlock has exacerbated the city’s energy wastage as well as air pollution. Trillions of rupiah are burned annually and more is spent to heal respiratory diseases resulting from the pollution. Another important issue is the city’s shortage of green and open areas. Amid massive construction projects, green and open spaces currently account for less than 10 percent of the city’s land — far lower than the minimum allocation of 30 percent set in the National Spatial Law. The lack of green and open spaces has put Jakarta under the constant threat of flooding. Jakarta should follow Earth Hour’s recommendation of reducing the use of plastics, papers and other solid waste not just for environmental reasons but for practical reasons as well. Till now, Jakarta has relied on its neighboring city to manage about 6,500 tons of garbage produced by its citizens every day. Certainly, an event like Earth Hour should serve as a reminder for all stakeholders in the city to take action to prevent Jakarta from environmental disasters. Switching off lamps is a good start.