The announcement by Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak, who said that Malaysian Airlines flight MH 370 ended in the Indian Ocean with no survivors, has broken the hearts of many, simply because the statement has dashed hopes for a miracle. No wonder Malaysia was quick to reap criticism, as it had jumped to a conclusion that concerns the fate of 239 lives before the nearly three weeks of searches found solid evidence of the whereabouts of the Boeing 777-200ER jet. No confirmed sighting of the plane has been made since it vanished from radar screens on March 8. In a press conference on Monday, Najib merely relied on possible aircraft debris that was spotted in remote locations where landing sites are non-existent, to support the argument that the plane had “ended” in the ocean. The search will continue anyway, but the Malaysian government’s decision to arrange a trip for families of the people aboard the missing aircraft to Australia sent a firm message that Kuala Lumpur had given up its efforts to locate the plane. Malaysia might have been frustrated by the absence of credible clues that could have led to the aircraft wreckage and the bodies of people on board had it crashed, let alone to the cause of the accident, after 18 days of searches involving 26 countries. But the frustration of the families of the crew and passengers is understandable, as from the onset they have been facing uncertainty as a result of contradictory statements from Malaysian authorities. The Malaysian government, for example, had denied findings that the airplane had made a U-turn en route to Beijing from Kuala Lumpur that March 8, only to confirm it several days later. Daily press conferences related to the accident barely provided new information until Australia announced “probably the best lead” in the multinational effort to find the plane. Speculation has been rife that the Malaysian government kept certain information secret related to the missing aircraft, but had tried to link the accident to the opposition instead. Such irresponsible arguments could have been avoided had Malaysia upheld transparency from the beginning. Hope looks slim that the plane will be found. But if the worst should come, a miracle has happened in the form of international solidarity to locate the aircraft in the name of humanity.