The government has been assuring the public that the national banking industry is now strong and sound but we will remain apprehensive about the industry’s resilience until the key features of the system are reformed to expose banks to tougher market selection. The maximum size of deposit that is insured by the Deposit Insurance Corporation (LPS) remains at Rp 2 billion (US$175,000) per account. That is 20 times as large as the sum insured before the October 2008 global financial crisis. The premiums imposed by LPS on banks are still uniformly set at a flat 0.1 percent of third-party funds. Until the maximum size of deposit insured is reduced and the premiums are determined on a risk-weighted basis, the 120 city-based commercial banks and more than 1,800 rural (secondary) banks will not face tougher market conditions. True, the strong and extensive insurance protection is good for small depositors because the program now covers more than 99 percent of depositors even though they account for only about 50 percent of the total nominal amount of third-party funds within the banking industry. But the extensive insurance coverage and the indiscriminate premium rate have also become a major disincentive for bank consolidation because market forces are not working fully to screen banks. The statement made by LPS chief executive director Kartika Wirjoatmodjo in Bali last week that a draft government regulation, which will change the premiums charged from flat to risk-based rates, is now under review at the Finance Ministry is certainly welcome. We believe risk-based premiums, ranging from 0.1 to 0.3 percent of third-party funds, will unleash stronger market forces to force banks to consolidate and improve their risk management to be entitled to low premium and to win customers. The system of flat premiums does not reward banks that continue to improve their governance. It even causes moral hazard as it leads customers to overlook the soundness of banks. Depositors often look only for convenience, even putting their savings into a small bank located near their residences that offers high interest rates, as long as their deposits are still within the maximum sum insured. A wide insurance coverage and flat rate were appropriate at the height of the global financial crisis to prevent panic or sudden, irrational runs on banks, but as the Financial Service Authority (OJK) claims, the banking industry now seems strong enough to face tougher market screening. This means the industry may now be ready for a smaller maximum sum insured and risk-based premiums. The combination of moral hazard and bad governance could put the stability of the banking industry in jeopardy. One of most important ways of minimizing moral hazard while maintaining the benefits of deposit insurance is exposing banks to tougher market selection and seeing to it that there is a sound regulatory and supervisory framework in place to deal with excessive risk-taking by banks.