March 12, Online The Indonesian Navy showcased its latest primary weapons systems during a ceremony at the Madura Pier, the Eastern Fleet headquarters in Surabaya, East Java, on Wednesday. President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono inspected the military hardware, which included warships, missiles and helicopters. “We do not want a war but if we have to fight to defend our sovereignty, then we are ready,” he said during the inspection. There was also a flyover involving maritime patrol versions of the CN-235 and NC-212, which were manufactured by state-owned airframer PT Dirgantara Indonesia, and Australian-made GAF N-22 Nomad patrol aircraft. Additionally, Navy chief of staff Adm. Marsetio briefed the president on the procurement of naval weapon systems. Your comments: Nice to see Indonesia moving forward, but you still have a long way to go. If the Indonesian government rounded-up all the corrupt money, they might just be able to buy an F-35 Jet, if the Americans are willing to sell you one. On a side note, how come all your old dictators’ families are filthy rich? Is this not the Indonesian peoples’ money that was corrupted from them? Why do so many Indonesians still hold these thieves in high regard? GDay I believe that they have bought a limited number of the Russian air to air missiles, but only have a total of 18 SU’s. They did have some F-16’s a while back but who knows what sort of condition they’re in now. The problem with this scenario is that even if Indonesia does buy the latest technology, the concept of maintenance is still a mystery. The cost of buying military hardware is dwarfed by the cost of keeping it effective. P Simon Peers Our military capability is so behind compared to our neighbors. We have to build up and modernize our military so that we can protect and defend our sovereignty. DT Van Man It doesn’t matter who attacks us, what’s important is that we are ready in any case. Indonesia spends less than Singapore on defense. We should at least strive to spend the same as Australia in 15 years time. The Navy and Air Force are the stepsons of the TNI due to their historical infatuation with the communists, but the Army only gained notoriety due to torture methods and human rights abuse. The missing Malaysia Airlines MH370 highlights the importance of a competent Navy and Air Force, especially since Indonesia is an archipelago. First things first, reinvigorate the defense industry to the reach pre-1997 financial crisis level when we still had a level playing field with China. Baby Jay Penn Jakarta Who is going to attack us? Malaysia? Singapore? Australia? Brunei? Malam Maintenance and upgrades are not cheap, along with the need for the infrastructure to go along with it. I read in a defense journal (granted, from early 2013) that Indonesia still hadn’t acquired or identified an air-to-air weapons system for the SU’s they have. Guess they can fly up to the opposition and make rude gestures until they do. Canuk