Your comments on the efforts of the Indonesian Democratic Party of Struggle (PDI-P) to resolve its dispute with Surabaya Mayor Tri Rismaharini over the appointment of party member Wisnu Sakti Buana as her deputy, while other parties take advantage of the conflict:The public love Risma for going up through the political ranks the proper way. So why is Risma being scrutinized despite the fact that she has been a good mayor and is sincerely loved by her constituents? The public cannot help but think that there are elements of internal jealousy in the party. Why don’t they see Risma as a valuable asset to the party?  PDI-P has been blinded by its desire for the presidency to remain in the family at all cost; ignoring the reality that the nation needs to be rescued by people like Jakarta Governor Joko “Jokowi” Widodo and Risma. Moeljono Adikoesoemo Jakarta There are two possibilities here: Either someone outside the party could have stirred up internal problems within PDI-P, or PDI-P has intentionally drummed up this issue to increase Risma’s popularity. I firmly believe that she’s a tough woman. It’s a strange and inconvenient tactic for the party to deliberately use Risma as a pawn to garner support. Teuku Ramzy Farrazy Jakarta In any business, to work at the maximum a leader must be assisted by someone who not only has the capacity to help but who can work side by side with his or her superior. Eddy Arjuna Zainy I really hope they will make Jakarta Governor Joko “Jokowi” Widodo and Risma as presidential and vice presidential candidates, respectively. B. Boy As far as I know Risma is not a member of PDI-P and never was. She is a pure bureaucrat. The only reason why PDI-P nominated her to become mayoral candidate of Surabaya was to use her as a puppet. Only after Risma proves her performance and cannot be dictated, PDI-P claims that Risma is one of its members. Adhi Dharma It’s nice to see that PDI-P chairwoman Megawati Soekarnoputri has sorted this out. Now it just remains for Megawati to announce she is proposing Jokowi and Risma as the PDI-P presidential and vice presidential candidates and it’s job done! Terry McAsee Politicians who change party as easy as they change their shoes should not be taken seriously because politics is about principles. Azwar BaretaTopic of the day Halal certification The dispute between the government and the Indonesia Ulema Council (MUI) over the authority to issue certification of halal products has caused a long delay in the deliberation of the halal certification bill. Who do you think should issue such certificates? Send your thoughts by email, SMS,