Feb. 25, Online The head of the House of Representatives Commission VII on energy and natural mineral resources, Sutan Bhatoegana, has confirmed a lobbying attempt by Democratic Party (PD) secretary-general Edhie “Ibas” Baskoro, through his representatives for PT Rekayasa Industry, to win the Gendalo-Gehem gas field tender. The representatives, he went on, were Eka Putra from the PD’s logistics division; Sartono Utomo, who is Ibas’ relative; and Denny Karmiana, director of PT Rajawali Swiber Cakrawala and Ibas’ former schoolmate. Your comments: The Democratic Party involved with corruption? How can that be? I didn’t realize there were any left after the previous series of arrests. Yes, the legislature will be working overtime to protect their own before the elections. Investigate all who vote to strip the Corruption Eradication Commission (KPK) of its powers. X Simaging Isn’t it a coincidence that the government is pushing to defang the KPK and President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono is going along with them? It looks like we have to worry about the next government. Will it be pro or anti KPK? Exbrit  Better hurry up and approve that new Criminal Code. Bet they work overtime on that for the first time in their lives. Jbl Nor. Perhaps The Jakarta Post needs to report more about brokers, walking around using third-party contacts and abusing them to extort money or get business. Nirvana This case is a test for the KPK to investigate the possible involvement of ring-one people. Tuama Lolom Bulan It is too loud and too clear to be ignored or denied. Suckit OK, now we have one canary that has started to sing out a name. Will the rest of the Democrat canaries sing the chorus? Malam I guess the Indonesian people are already bored and mad with these corrupt and foul-playing politicians. They should be replaced by honest and ambitious people who care for the country rather than themselves, using the motto “catch the money and run”. The younger generation should force them to step down and make place for better representatives. Chris Bradach