Feb. 22, p1. Amid heightening tensions between Indonesia and its immediate neighbors, Indonesian Military (TNI) chief Gen. Moeldoko is slated to visit China next week in a trip that may include a meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping. Moeldoko told The Jakarta Post that he was scheduled to meet Chinese National Defense Minister Gen. Chang Wanquan and People’s Liberation Army (PLA) chief of general staff Gen. Fang Fenghui. He added that a meeting with Xi, who is also chairman of the Communist Party of China’s Central Military Commission, was in the process of being arranged but had not yet been confirmed. Your comments: Well this visit is merely to discuss an agreement to build an integrated air defense system for the TNI, which will include establishing a command center in Jakarta several air defense bases in strategic cities such as Surabaya, Makassar and Pekanbaru. China will assist Indonesia in integrating the anti-aircraft weapon systems already at our disposal with those we plan to acquire, such as the Oerlikon Skyshield, TD-2000, POPRAD, Starstreak, HQ-9 and HQ-16. Mad Kaichi There is no problem with Indonesia having a close relationship with China at this point. But, when China begins its expansion policy Indonesia will be eaten up along with the rest. China is for China. Kruger It would be difficult for Indonesia to fight a defensive battle given the current state of the TNI because theoretically if a different country were to invade they would already know this. Indonesia would be better off dispatching a defensive armada to monitor and deter rather than wasting time with “large-scale” military exercises that waste money that could be used more effectively elsewhere! Canuk China has laid claim to the waters around Natuna through its nine-dotted line map. China is attempting to secure resources in the area and has already sent a warship there to force the Indonesian authorities to release Chinese fishermen who were detained by an Indonesian Navy vessel for fishing in Indonesian waters. The Navy patrol vessel tried to radio for help but was unable because the frequency had been jammed, which left them with no choice but to hand over the Chinese fishermen. The US is currently replacing all of its super carriers with new Ford-class super carriers. They are also replacing all their missile boats with new Arleigh Burke-class destroyers. They will also eventually replace all their fighter jets with the new F-35. China is currently still no match for the US and it would have to quadruple its military spending to match the US. Eddy Saf Indonesia is doing the right thing by aligning itself with China. Don’t listen to all of opposing comments. They are just nervous. Suckit  Indonesia needs China as much as China needs Indonesia. It is lovely to see two countries being intimate. We are the largest economy in South East Asia, which is a valid reason to bolster our military. Cadeer I don’t think people should take this too seriously, the Indonesian language press is not reporting it. People shouldn’t get too worked up. I wonder how much Indonesia can extract from China. Weilim There are no real friends, just interests. A smart country navigates its way through a web of relationships while fostering those that are the most important.   Jagera I have no interest in global politics and global influence. What I want is for this nation to stand on its own feet proudly without to bow to other nations to survive. I view these military ties with China as positive. The TNI has had had ties to the US military for a long time. Our nation needs to stay clear of any rising superpower. Getting too close to one and avoiding another is just not wise. The US and China are potential enemies. So let’s make friends with both. Why choose sides? If they engage each other, let’s stay out of it. It’s their war, not ours. Rio Rivai It is a good move by Indonesia. China will surely continue to invest in Indonesia as it needs friends for the South China Sea issue. China needs friends, Indonesia needs funds. H cahyadi