The two letters below refer to an article titled “Prabowo grandstands in his party’s military-style rally”, (The Jakarta Post, March 24). I do not know much about Prabowo Subianto but from this one report I get a picture/image of someone who is flamboyant — a trait not necessarily evil but more suitable for playboys, movie and TV stars and teenagers out to impress women.   As one of the nation’s presidential candidates, I would not rule him out completely but may tend to be guarded toward someone with such traits. A flamboyant president would take a Garuda 747 and bring an entourage that included a hairstylist and chef, when he could very well travel economy class with essential administrative aides. Imagery is important for such a person, sometimes at the expense of facts, truth or prudence. Second, to tout nationalization mainly to build what I perceive as resentment toward anything foreign, as opposed to describing nationalization as a graduated plan toward a well-planned sustainable economic master plan, is somewhat ill-advised.   Belittling his political rival, Jakarta Governor Joko “Jokowi” Widodo, is another bad strategy, as the more he focuses on insulting Jokowi, the more he looks “less” like a prudent, wise, competent, calm and calculating leader. To treat his opponent in such a disrespectful way shows he lacks self-control, a dangerous emotional weakness.   The danger is presidential decisions made in fury and anger, ignoring good advice and rational judgment. He is not totally out of the running. I hope he will get better advice from his handlers.    Let’s have Prabowo describe his ideas and concepts, to allow voters to exercise intelligent voting based on well-established visions and programs, versus voting decisions based on imagery. James Waworoendeng Jakarta Prabowo Subianto for president, why not? Those who are capable of doing the worst have the capability to do the best too.   As an example, from the Industrial Revolution until the present, America, European countries and all other Western countries have damaged Mother Nature more than any other country. Every year they produce carbon dioxide emissions like crazy. But any country in this world (from Singapore to Australia) that would like learn how to properly take care of our mother earth will ask the West. Prabowo has shown us that he is capable of doing the worst and probably now is the time for him to pay it back and show Indonesian people that he can do the best for this country and repair his family name. By the way, every single Indonesian who had the right to vote during the Soeharto era is guilty of whatever crimes were carried out by Indonesian leaders in the past and the culture of corruption that still exist today, because the leaders were chosen by the people. Even if Prabowo became president he could not become a dictator because now we have the House of Representatives, the Corruption Eradication Commission (KPK), the press, NGOs and many other institutions that would not allow him to do that. I think a dictatorship will not happen in my lifetime; my era is about fighting corruption and learning about good governance so that the generations after me will see Indonesia. Although I haven’t decide to vote for Prabowo, I think Prabowo has the guts to fight against corruption. Gatot Santoso Wibowo Jakarta