A stage lined with a collection of megaphones above a large glass chamber sets the tone for performances featuring ear shattering noises and mind bending effects. After the initial barrage of seemingly random and incoherent sounds there finally came a point in between the eardrum ripping chaos where one could distinguish certain sonic elements: from the drone of looped recited texts, syncopated rhythm of footsteps, drumbeats and slashing noises, distorted sound samples, the muted voices to yet loud screams. The noises were part of Sehabis Suara #1 (After the Voices #1) dance-theater offering by performance art collective Teater Garasi. Teater Garasi cofounder Yudi Ahmad Tajudin said that Voices was a new project that the collective had been composing since July last year.“We want to see how a subject or individual reacts in the midst of these loud and boisterous voices. The performance’s concept is abstract, but it was inspired by real events in Indonesia’s recent history,” Yudi, who is cofounder of the 20-year-old collective, told The Jakarta Post. The on-going work is intended to be a reflection on the eruption of voices and narratives during the post-1998 period, and what kind of internal and external tension this situation generates. A 30-minute performance — a shorter version — of After the Voices was staged by the art collective on Wednesday, to coincide with Teater Garasi being presented with the 2013 Prince Claus Award. The annual award was given by the Netherlands-based Prince Claus Fund for Culture and Development to honor outstanding achievements in the field of culture and development. Teater Garasi is among a group of 11 individuals and organizations whose cultural actions are considered to have had a positive impact on the development of their respective societies. “It is not customary for Prince Claus Award laureates to perform during the presentation event, but Ton van Zeeland said that we should do it to make it special and it just so happened that we were working on Voices [project] at the time,” Yudi said referring to the director of Dutch cultural center Erasmus Huis. The full version of Voices is scheduled to be performed in Yogyakarta in June as well as a number of cities around the country. Teater Garasi will use Voices as an ongoing social experiment over the next two years and is set to have several elements added over time. Yudi said that Voices would mark the new phase of the art collective’s creative journey after its two decades of existence. “We are not only looking at investigating what it is happening in around us but also our members’ experiences within Teater Garasi. “We now refer to ourselves as Garasi Performance Institute, while keeping the Teater Garasi brand, to demonstrate that we are evolving through sharing knowledge, experiences and ideas,” Yudi said.