In observance of Earth Hour, most city administration offices, landmarks and several private sector buildings are expected to switch off their lights for an hour from 8:30 p.m. on Saturday. The event, called 60+ Earth Hour, is initiated by World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) to encourage people to conserve energy. WWF Indonesia communication and advocacy director Nyoman Iswarayoga said that lights at landmarks like the National Monument (Monas), the Hotel Indonesia traffic circle, the Arjuna Wiwaha statue in front of the Bank Indonesia building, all in Central Jakarta, and the Pemuda Membangun statue in Senayan, South Jakarta, would be switched off. He said that some buildings, particularly City Hall and Hotel Indonesia Kempinski, Grand Hyatt and Pullman hotels, all in Central Jakarta, also planned to participate in the event. WWF Indonesia had been campaigning for the event since February, he said, adding that the campaign was about much more than saving electricity, it was about saving the earth. He said as part of its environmental conservation campaign, WWF Indonesia encouraged people to use public transportation on Feb. 16, to stop using plastic bags on Feb. 23, to minimise using paper on March 9 and to save water on March 23, a day after World Water Day. “The Earth Hour is not just about switching off lights and electronic devices for an hour,” he said on Friday. He said Earth Hour would kick off in a ceremony at Central Park mall in West Jakarta on Saturday. Several singers and actresses are scheduled to perform there before and during Earth Hour, according to Nyoman. “We will use minimum electricity for the performances,” he said. Besides the main event in Central Park, Nyoman said, the St. Joseph Church in Matraman, East Jakarta, would participate by holding mass during Earth Hour. “We will hold mass and gather to discuss environmental issues and pray for the Lord’s help in saving the Earth,” said the chairman of the church’s Earth Hour committee, Teguh Jan Dharmawan. After the mass, he said, the church would hold an acrobatics performance using only candles for lighting. Nyoman said this year’s event would be the fifth time the country observed the event. Overall participation in the annual event has gradually increased, with more cities joining in every year. He said that 37 cities were participating in this year’s Earth Hour, as compared to 31 cities in 2013. Meanwhile, a number of workers living at a boarding house in Kalimalang, East Jakarta, have their own plans for Earth Hour. “All of my friends have agreed to switch off the lights in the hallway and their rooms,” said one of the workers, Failasufa, 25. She added that in order to kill time in the dark, some residents planned to play hide and seek using flash lights. Nyoman said that his agency had prepared a list of activities on its official website, that people could do during the dark hour. “We have developed ideas on how to enjoy the hour creatively,” he said. (nai)