Deputy Governor Basuki “Ahok” Tjahaja Purnama has expressed his outrage to a number of councilors over their objection to his plan to accept a grant of 30 buses from three private companies, saying he was considering offering the buses to newly formed city-owned PT Transjakarta. Speaking about the suspended measure at City Hall on Friday, Ahok said many councilors had rejected his plan to accept the buses in a move to support two city officials who had kiboshed the donation, arguing it contravened a 2005 bylaw promoting the use of compressed natural gas (CNG)-fueled public transportation. “My subordinates previously suspended the donation of the new buses by waiting for Home Ministry approval on the buses and then imposing a high tax just because the firms wanted to put their ads on the vehicles,” he said. Cell phone operator PT Telekomunikasi Selular (Telkomsel), T-Phone and Roda Mas donated 30 buses to the administration last year under their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) programs, but the acting regional secretary and Taxation Agency head suspended their plan because, besides contravening the bylaw, donors are required to pay tax on any advertisements on the buses. Ahok said that if resistance mounted further, he would give the buses to PT Transjakarta. “Councilors are trying to sway public opinion by saying I am teaching my staff to breach the bylaw,” he said. According to Bylaw No. 2/2005 on air pollution control, public transportation and operational vehicles belonging to the city administration have to use gas. City Council Deputy Speaker Triwisaksana said previously that the bylaw was binding and covered all public buses, including Transjakarta, even if they were donated. Ahok responded by saying if the bylaw was to be enforced, it had to include other buses like Kopaja and Metro Mini buses, which uses diesel. “It is hypocritical,” he said, adding that the cars used by councilors were also diesel-fueled. “This car is also diesel-fueled,” he said, tapping the door of his official car. He argued that it was not the right time to enforce the bylaw as the number of natural gas stations (SPBG) in Jakarta was still limited. When asked whether the administration planned to revise the bylaw, Ahok said neither he nor Governor Joko Widodo would change it. “We agree that gas is a good thing. The biggest natural resource we have right now is gas. However, we can’t buy more gas-fueled buses because we lack natural gas stations,” he said. “We need around 45 stations but we can only reach that figure in 2017,” he said, adding that Jakarta only had 11 natural gas stations. He said the stark choice now was whether to wait for an adequate number of gas stations or accept the donation of diesel-fueled buses. Ahok said several other private companies, including Coca Cola, Mayapada, Senayan City and Pacific Place, had offered the administration 23 new buses.