Former Democratic Party chairman and graft and money-laundering suspect Anas Urbaningrum again went on the offensive against his former boss and current party chairman President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, relating to the 2008 Bank Century bailout scandal. Last week, Anas said he had the audit report of Yudhoyono’s 2009 reelection campaign finances that he claimed listed bogus donors — both individuals and corporations — whose names were used to cover up illicit funds allegedly funneled from the Bank Century case. This time, he brought the report to the Corruption Eradication Commission (KPK) as evidence. “Here,” said Anas, while flashing papers he claimed to be an independent audit report at KPK headquarters on Friday. He interpreted the information in the report, which he received 10 months ago, as there being money from illegal undertakings, among the total Rp 232 billion (US$20.4 million) in campaign donations. “It means there are others who gave money, but the names were not listed here,” Anas added. “I believe it will be a proper move for the KPK to investigate, should there be other [undocumented] funds for the campaign. They should investigate whether or not it has something to do with the Bank Century case.” Last week, the KPK said it would first validate the information provided by Anas before investigating whether money from the bailout of Bank Century was funneled to fund Yudhoyono’s reelection bid. However, the report looked strange as the cover was without any letterhead, but was titled Independent Audit Report on Implementing Procedures on Using the Campaign Funds of Yudhoyono-Boediono and the National Campaign Team in the 2009 Presidential Election. Anas also appeared to attack his former party as he refused to comment on the KPK’s plan to present Vice President Boediono at the court as a witness in the Bank Century scandal. However, Anas later denied an accusation by several party executives that he had intentionally launched a smear campaign ahead of the legislative election. KPK spokesman Johan Budi said that Anas on Friday was grilled over the Hambalang case so the aforementioned report had nothing to do with it. Separately, Ma’mun Murod Al Barbasy of the Indonesian Movement Association (PPI), which was established by Anas, demanded the KPK’s promise to immediately bring Anas’ case to court. (tjs)