Jan. 13, p2 The daughter of former president Soeharto, Siti Hardijanti “Tutut” Rukmana, has officially taken over Media Nusantara Citra (MNC) TV, part of a media empire owned by media mogul and vice presidential nominee of the People’s Conscience Party (Hanura) Hary Tanoesoedibjo. On Saturday, several executives of TPI, the original name of the station, moved into the station’s headquarters in East Jakarta, after the Supreme Court returned the majority share of the broadcasting company to Tutut last October. “Dandy Rukmana [Soeharto’s grandson] and Muhammad Jarman, the [company’s] legitimate directors based on a general shareholders meeting on March 17, 2005, will start work from today,” TPI lawyer Harry Ponto said on Saturday. Your comments: Soeharto was a great leader who made great decisions for this country, but not his children. The man was the best thing that could have happened to this country in the 1960s. Dewi Thompson There is enough evidence of money in Swiss banks alone. The problem is that so far no Indonesian government since the Soeharto era has undertaken the necessary procedures toward the Swiss government. Once they do this, Indonesia will get back a lot of money, like the case of Marcos and the Philippines. I’m talking about hundreds of millions, if not even several billions, of dollars. Wake up Indonesia, and start to clean up your past. Don’t let it go. It is never too late for truth and justice. Tom Ganesha On the recent list of biggest alleged embezzlers ever, Soeharto was suspected of stealing US$15-30 billion. Do I need to say more? How blind are the people that still call him a great leader? Wim Yogya Except for the hundreds of thousands of families who lost loved ones and those whose money was stolen; other than that, a great guy really. After all, he was the man who nurtured the attitude of public servants to “take as much as you can, any way you can” in the republic in which we live today. Rusty Nails War crimes should never go unpunished. There are clear historical records regarding the perpetrators of the 1965 massacres. Most of the instigators, however, are dead. But that doesn’t mean that people should forget what happened. This tragedy is well documented and accessible to anyone who can read. Anoycom I hate and am always against the way Soeharto’s administration ruled Indonesia: tyrannical, ruthless, dictatorial, obstinate, stubborn, autocratic and even corrupt. However, I have to regretfully say that he was the best Indonesian president, ever. Fussion B Abdurrahman “Gus Dur” Wahid was the best ever president, pound-for-pound rating. Sukarno is second. There is no way Soeharto was the best ever. Pedro Gonzales