A newborn baby girl was reported to have been kidnapped from the Hasan Sadikin Hospital in West Java by a woman dressed in a paramedic’s uniform while the baby’s parents were in the bathroom. The hospital’s president director, Bayu Wahyudi, said the baby was with her mother on the treatment ward when the kidnapping occurred on Tuesday evening. “The baby was not being treated in a special room because she was healthy. The kidnapper disguised herself as a doctor and visited the baby’s parents,” Bayu told reporters at his office on Wednesday. The baby, who was to be named Valencia, was born on Tuesday at around 9:30 a.m. She weighed 3.4 kilograms and was 48 centimeters in length. As she did not need special medical treatment, she was on the same ward as her mother, Lasmaria Boru Manulang, 25, who was accompanied by her husband, Toni Manurung, 26. At about 7:30 p.m., a woman dressed in a doctor’s outfit visited their ward and chatted with them in the room. She later told Lasmaria to go to the bathroom to clean a blood stain from her nightgown, and suggested Toni might like to accompany his wife. When the couple came out of the bathroom 10 minutes later, the baby was no longer in the room; neither was the woman whom they had thought was a doctor. Lasmaria and Toni realized their baby had been kidnapped and they immediately reported the case to the nurse on duty and local police. “From the CCTV pictures, the perpetrator was female, she wore black-framed glasses, had light skin and was dressed in a long-sleeved, white lab coat,” Bayu said, adding that security measures in the natal wing were quite tight. In light of the case, he said his office would strengthen hospital security. A special identity card is required for anyone accompanying a patient and each room has only one door for entering and exiting. “We also place security officials on the wing,” Bayu said. Separately, Bandung Police chief Sr. Comr. Mashudi said that he had established special teams to track down the kidnapper. “We have deployed three teams to investigate the case,” he said. Indonesia has witnessed a number of cases of babies being kidnapped in the past few years. It is believed that some of the cases are linked to human trafficking syndicates. In October 2012, a baby girl named Suci Almadinah was snatched from the Wahidin Sudirohusodo Hospital in Makassar, South Sulawesi. The kidnapper, who had the initials SLT, took Suci when the baby’s grandmother fell asleep. The police, however, found and arrested SLT a few days later. She was charged under the 2002 Child Protection Law, which carries a maximum sentence of 15 years in prison and a Rp 300 million (US$26,000) fine. In September 2012, Syifa Maisyatul Khoirot’s baby was kidnapped from the Siti Zachroh Hospital in Tambun, Bekasi regency, West Java. Syifa only discovered that her four-day-old baby, named Cello Aditya, had disappeared when she was about to check out of the hospital. “I had just completed the hospital billing and was getting ready to leave when I found that my baby was gone,” Syifa said as quoted by Kompas. Syifa and her husband, Jaja Nurdiansyah, immediately filed a report with the Bekasi Police. They also reported the case to the National Commission for Child Protection (Komnas PA) in East Jakarta. Despite a police investigation, Syifa and Jaja’s child has never been found.