As the legislative election approaches, hopeful, first-time candidates are especially going all out to win votes. A 27-year-old Nasdem Party candidate running for the Jakarta Council in the Central Jakarta electoral district, Wibi Andrino, said he often returned home late as he was busy spending time with Jakarta’s youngsters who were among his target voters. “As a young candidate, I feel more connected to young people. I hang out a lot with young communities, including musicians, and they usually hang out at night,” Wibi told The Jakarta Post, adding that “last night I came home at 2 a.m.” Despite this, Wibi combines his hobby of cycling with campaigning, saying that cycling represents his philosophy of leadership. “When you ride a bike, your hands control where the bike is going while all other parts of the bike support it with all the power they have,” said Wibi, who regularly cycles in a group. Wibi, the nephew of the party’s founder and media mogul Surya Paloh, said he used all of his savings to fund his campaign. “I spent just less than Rp 1 billion [US$88,000],” said Wibi, who works as a lawyer. Indonesian Democratic Party of Struggle (PDI-P) candidate for the Jakarta Council, Wa Ode Herlina, spent her campaigning going to targeted districts to gain support. “I targeted districts where [Jakarta Governor] Jokowi won during the first round of the gubernatorial election in 2012,” she said, adding that she also mostly approached female voters. Recently, an ustad (Muslim preacher) invited her to join his Koran recitation gathering, an opportunity she said she made good use of. During the event, Herlina distributed leaflets detailing her track record and social work, which included introducing free hijab tutorial sessions for women. She added that she never forgot to emphasize her good relations with the governor of the capital. “I was part of Pak Jokowi’s gubernatorial campaign and have led an NGO called ‘Jakarta’s Friend’ ever since. I helped Jakarta residents in need by being their bridge to the governor so they could convey their grievances,” she told the audience. “Whoever you pick, make sure that candidate can help bridge your interests to the right people,” she added. Michael Victor Sianipar, a Gerindra Party legislative candidate, said he expected his campaign budget to exceed the limit he had previously set. “At first I set Rp 300 million. The number rose to Rp 518 million but as Election Day approaches I expect it to reach Rp 600 million,” he told the Post, adding he had collected the money from fundraising events that he and his campaign team had organized. “At first I skipped areas where residents requested meals to attend my event, but now I am willing to provide snacks and meals during the events,” he said. Candidates with more resources do not hesitate to indulge their supporters. PDI-P councilor Prasetyo Edi Marsudi, who allocated Rp 2 billion to his campaign, loved to treat his constituents to decent restaurants while having meetings. Recently, he invited his supporters to a restaurant in Cikini, Central Jakarta. He also distributed polo shirts with his name on. “Usually, candidates distribute T-shirts priced around Rp 20,000 each to potential voters but I ordered T-shirts priced Rp 65,000 each,” he explained. He pointed out that extra efforts were necessary, despite his status as an incumbent, considering the fierce competition not only among candidates from different political parties but also from within his own party. “Even after all I do for them, supporters can still easily turn to other candidates,” he said.