Analysts are upbeat that the country’s main stock exchange will perform well ahead of the upcoming elections with the stock exchange barometer, the Jakarta Composite Index (JCI), perhaps hitting 5,000. The country is set to hold the legislative election on April 9 and the presidential election on July 9. The main market driver is positive sentiment among investors, with analysts predicting that the JCI could hit record-breaking levels if the new president elect and his policies appeal to the business sector. Analysts say that national elections — as shown by 2004 and 2009 — have traditionally fueled trading on the Indonesia Stock Exchange (IDX) with high expectations and post-election euphoria. Trust Securities Research head Reza Priyambada said over the weekend a boost to equities, as happened in previous election years, might occur again this year. “Basically, any kind of sentiment can significantly affect stocks and this year it is election sentiment that will play the biggest part,” he said. “We have yet to get a full understanding of the quality of the candidates, or later the elected president; but the assumption that the president will be the one wanted by the majority will raise market confidence and fuel the bourse’s performance,” he said adding that the candidates’ image building during the elections might further attract foreign investors to put their money into the country’s stocks. Reza said that investors would be in wait-and-see mode in the weeks before the election until it was clear which candidates would run for the presidency. “We previously forecast that the JCI would close at between 4,850 and 4,950 this year, given the stagnant annual growth in the trading session last year,” he said. “Now that the index has surpassed these predictions, we have to revise the forecast so that it might even surpass 5,000.” The JCI gained 3.23 percent to close at 4,878.64 in active trading on Friday, while the rupiah slid 0.3 percent to 11,421 (US$1) against the US dollar on Friday. The strong rise was assisted by the official nomination of Jakarta Governor Joko “Jokowi” Widodo as the Indonesian Democratic Party of Struggle (PDI-P) candidate in the upcoming presidential election. The Jokowi effect helped the index counter the downward trend among emerging markets, which mostly dropped due to escalating concerns about China’s economic slowdown and fears the ongoing crisis in the Ukraine could trigger massive capital outflows. Kiswoyo Adi Joe of Investa Sarana Mandiri predicted that the JCI would hit 5,000 during the election and reach 5,200 — or more — by year-end. He emphasized the Jokowi effect as a market confidence booster during the elections. “People believe that if Jokowi is elected, he will clean up corruption and will focus on building infrastructure,” he said. “This will entice foreign investors to put their money into the country’s stock market, driven by a rising sense of security.” The JCI, which has gained more than 20 percent since it dropped to last year’s lowest level at the end of August, was one of two indexes that ended higher on Friday among 13 emerging market indexes tracked by the IDX. The other index that ended higher was Thailand’s SET Index, which inched up 0.12 percent. Total net foreign buying on Friday amounted to Rp 7.48 trillion. The JCI has grown by 14 percent year-to-date, the highest among Asian countries, which have mostly recorded declining indexes.