The US and the EU have imposed sanctions on Russia over the annexation of Crimea and the crisis in eastern Ukraine.America published lists of individuals and companies hit by travel bans and asset freezes on 19 March, 20 March, and 28 April. The EU's lists were issued 17 and 23 March.Those targeted are close to Russian President Vladimir Putin. Here are some of the most prominent figures. Full profiles follow.Gennady TimchenkoFounder of Gunvor (oil and energy market trading)USArkady Rotenberg and Boris RotenbergCo-owners of SMP Bank and SGM GroupUSYuri KovalchukLargest single shareholder of Bank RossiyaUSIgor SechinHead of Rosneft (petroleum company)USSergei IvanovChief of staff for Presidential Executive OfficeUSVladimir YakuninChairman of Russian RailwaysUSVladimir KozhinHead of administrationUSViktor IvanovDirector of Federal Drug Control ServiceUSSergei NaryshkinSpeaker of the lower house of parliamentUS and EUVladislav SurkovPresidential aide and election adviserUS and EUDmitry RogozinDeputy Prime MinisterUS and EUSergei GlazyevAdviser on Ukraine policyUS and EUSergei MironovMember of Russian ParliamentUSDmitry KozakDeputy Prime MinisterUSSergei ChemezovDirector of Rostec (state high-technologies division)USBank RossiyaRussian bankUSDmitry KiselyovState television news anchorEUGennady Timchenko (US sanctions)Estimated by Forbes to worth $15.3bn (£9.2bn), he is a long-standing friend of President Putin. A founder of Gunvor, one of the world's largest independent commodity trading companies involved in the oil and energy markets, he is also president of the SKA hockey club in St Petersburg. The US Treasury says Mr Putin has investments in Gunvor and may have access to company funds.Arkady Rotenberg and Boris Rotenberg (US sanctions)Arkady Rotenberg (pictured left, with President Putin) has long-standing ties to Mr Putin personally. They were members of the same St Petersburg judo club when younger. Younger brother Boris has interests in ice hockey, together with Gennady Timchenko. The US Treasury says the Rotenberg brothers have provided "support to Putin's pet projects" by receiving and executing approximately $7bn of contracts for the Sochi Olympic Games and state-controlled energy giant Gazprom, through which their personal wealth has increased by $2.5bn.Igor Sechin (US sanctions)The head of Russia's leading petroleum company Rosneft has shown utter loyalty to Mr Putin, according to US officials. He served as the presidential deputy chief of staff until 2008 - when Dmitry Medvedev temporarily succeeded Mr Putin. Mr Sechin is seen as a powerful figure operating largely behind the scenes. He is also believed to share "economic interests" with Mr Putin.Yuri Kovalchuk (US sanctions)The largest single shareholder of Bank Rossiya, Mr Kovalchuk is one of Russia's 100 richest men. He is also the personal banker for senior officials of the Russian Federation, including Mr Putin, according to the US Treasury. He is a close adviser to the president and has been referred to as one of his "cashiers".Bank Rossiya (US sanctions)The 17th largest bank in Russia, with assets of approximately $10bn. The US Treasury describes it as "the personal bank" for senior Russian officials. Its shareholders include members of the inner circle associated with the mysterious Ozero Dacha Co-operative, a housing community on the shore of Lake Komsomolsk founded in 1996 whose original eight members have become extraordinarily rich under Mr Putin's rule. Many of these members are on the sanctions list.Sergei Ivanov (US sanctions)Believed to be a close personal friend of Mr Putin, he has been chief of staff of the Presidential Executive Office since 2011. The two men are the same age, come from St Petersburg and worked in intelligence before entering politics. In the late 1990s, when Mr Putin was director of the Federal Security Service (FSB), Mr Ivanov served as his deputy. Mr Ivanov was defence minister from 2001 to 2007, and then became first deputy prime minister and secretary of the Security Council.Vladimir Yakunin (US sanctions)A friend of Mr Putin's for many years, he was a member of the president's long-standing St Petersburg network from the 1990s and a member of the Dacha Co-operative (see Bank Rossiya). He was appointed chairman of Russian Railways in 2005. Mr Yakunin regularly consults with Mr Putin on issues regarding the state-owned company and accompanies him on many domestic and international visits, according to the US Treasury. He was also in charge of major construction projects for the Sochi Winter Olympics.Vladimir Kozhin (US sanctions)As head of administration under President Putin since 2000, Mr Kozhin is responsible for overseeing a staff of 60,000; more than 100 state enterprises and institutions, including the Kremlin and other government buildings; and some 4,000 vehicles.Viktor Ivanov (US sanctions)The former KGB officer and deputy director of the FSB is a close ally of Mr Putin who served as his chief of staff at the St Petersburg Mayor's Office. Mr Ivanov is currently the director of the Federal Drug Control Service and a member of the Security Council of the Russian Federation. He also served as deputy chief of the Administration of the Russian Federation from 2000 to 2004, and assistant to the president from 2004 to 2008.Sergei Naryshkin (US and EU sanctions)The speaker of the lower house of parliament, the State Duma. Russian media and foreign analysts say that, like Vladimir Putin, he once served in the Soviet KGB, although he has never confirmed this.Vladislav Surkov (US and EU sanctions)Currently a presidential aide, he is regarded as the mastermind of Mr Putin's successive election victories through his controversial strategy of "managed democracy". He became known as the "grey cardinal" for his behind-the-scenes influence particularly in Mr Putin's first presidential term of office from 2000-2008.Dmitry Rogozin (US and EU sanctions)An outspoken deputy prime minister and former Russian ambassador to Nato in Brussels. He shrugged off the sanctions with a tweet that said: "All these sanctions aren't worth a grain of sand of the Crimean land that returned to Russia."Sergei Glazyev (US and EU sanctions)Widely regarded as Mr Putin's chief adviser on Ukraine, he talked openly of intervening militarily a month before Russian troops moved into Crimea.Sergei Mironov (US sanctions)A leading MP, he has played a key role in the Crimea crisis.Dmitry Kozak (US sanctions)Has served as deputy prime minister since 2008, and is seen as a long-time ally of Mr Putin's. They worked together in St Petersburg's city administration in the 1990s, and Mr Kozak later followed his boss to Moscow. In 2004, he headed Mr Putin's election campaign. He also served as the presidential representative in the volatile North Caucasus region - a sign of personal trust by Mr Putin.Sergei Chemezov (US sanctions)The director of the Rostec high-technologies state corporation, Mr Chemezov has known Mr Putin since the 1980s when they lived in the same apartment complex in East Germany. For years, Mr Chemezov headed the powerful state company dealing with arms exports - Rosoboronexport.Dmitry Kiselyov (EU sanctions)A controversial state TV anchor who recently became head of the state news agency Russia Today. He is well-known for his anti-Western and homophobic diatribes, as well as his extremely hostile attitude to the protests in Kiev that led to the ousting of President Viktor Yanukovych.